Behind me is the Royal Homeopathic Hospital London.
And I'm here because this week was interesting for alternative medicine in Britain.
This week, Noel Edmonds, a television star and propagator of the crazy series of Nineties, Mr. Blobby,
recommended something called EMP Pad. It's a yoga mat,
and its inventors claim that its electromagnetic fields with very low intensity
help to work cells in the body.
I will not deal with the evidence details for Pad.
I am very skeptical, but there are early studies that say,
that cautiously used specific elmg. Fields can really be beneficial.
I know, too, I was surprised.
Well, the yoga mat will not work like this,
but there are devices using elmg. Fields that work well enough to do so,
that insurance companies have begun to reimburse them.
I skip off the insulting reactions that Noel Edmonds got from people on Twitter,
especially after telling someone suffering from cancer,
that it could be because of their "negative attitude".
Instead, let's look at the reaction of people who make EMP Pad.
Because clearly, skeptics will not like anything they do,
but there are many supporters of alternative medicine.
Surely, would the company welcome the celebrities ?!
No. At the top of their webpages, in capital letters, they completely distanced themselves from Noel Edmonds.
It has nothing to do with us, they wrote.
And the reason: Edmonds claimed they could help treat cancer.
All over Europe, it is forbidden to promote prescription drugs and treatment methods in public.
They can advertise to doctors, of course, but we just do not have it
those US classifieds of drugs with a long list of side effects.
"There have been serious, sometimes fatal consequences such as infections, lymphoma,
"or other types of cancer.
"There have been circulatory, excretory and digestive problems, severe allergic reactions,
"and new or worsened heart failure."
But in Britain there are even stricter laws on cancer treatment.
It is not enough to say, "Oh, in fact, it is not a medical device"
or "Oh, these are just some herbs".
If you sell something in public and if you say it can help or cure cancer,
you can be prosecuted.
Even if it treated cancer.
The idea of ​​1939, when that law was passed, still holds true today.
Sell ​​medicines to doctors. If you give them an alternative medicine that works,
with evidence that persuades them enough to start prescribing it,
and the one who discovered it is probably waiting for the Nobel Prize.
And if they do not start prescribing: Well, I'm not going to cure cancer, huh?
If you sell your medicine directly to the public,
it almost certainly does not cure it.
And it probably hurts people who would otherwise go to the doctor.
With this law, nobody needs to show that your medicine is not working:
just prove that you are not selling it through someone qualified.
Noel Edmonds was in his tongue when he said, "This is curing cancer."
I think he's irresponsible, but he can believe it,
and he himself does not sell any yoga mats.
"Then my tumor was destroyed by the sound waves,
"which again proves that energy is at the heart of this problem."
But those who sell them,
they had to reject this claim immediately,
or risking an investigation that they would really like to avoid.
[Translation - AK]